Adds the procedure to configure AWS Load Balancer Operator on STS cluster by using predefined credentials (#53666)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/configuring-albo-on-sts-cluster-predefined-credentials.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
// * networking/installing-albo-sts-cluster.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="nw-installing-albo-on-sts-cluster-predefined-credentials_{context}"]
= Configuring the AWS Load Balancer Operator on Secure Token Service cluster by using predefined credentials

You can use the predefined `CredentialsRequest` object by specifying the `spec.credential` field in the AWS load Balancer Controller custom resource (CR).

.Prerequisites

> * You must extract and prepare the `ccoctl` binary.

Author: IMO, since this is part of a prerequisites section, we must keep it at the beginning of each chapter. But I can check once the peer-review process begins if we can eliminate the repetitive commands

.Procedure

. Use the `ccoctl` tool to process the `CredentialsRequest` object of the controller:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ ccoctl aws create-iam-roles \
        --name <name> --region=<aws_region> \
        --credentials-requests-dir=hack/controller \

>         --identity-provider-arn <oidc-arn>

Author: Addressed

----
For each `CredentialsRequest` object, the `ccoctl` tool creates an IAM role with a trust policy. The trust policy contains the specified OIDC identity provider, and permissions policy as defined in each `CredentialsRequest` object. The `ccoctl` tool also generates a set of secrets in a `manifests` directory that the AWS Load Balancer Controller uses.

. Apply the secrets to your cluster:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ ls manifests/*-credentials.yaml | xargs -I{} oc apply -f {}
----

. Verify that the credentials secret of the controller is created:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc -n aws-load-balancer-operator get secret aws-load-balancer-controller-manual-cluster --template='{{index .data "credentials"}}' | base64 -d
----
+
.Example output
----
[default]
    sts_regional_endpoints = regional
    role_arn = arn:aws:iam::999999999999:role/aws-load-balancer-operator-aws-load-balancer-controller
    web_identity_token_file = /var/run/secrets/openshift/serviceaccount/token
----

> . Create the `aws-load-balancer-controller` resource YAML file, for example, `sample-aws-lb-predefined-creds.yaml`, as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Create the `AWSLoadBalancerController` resource YAML file, for example, `sample-aws-lb-manual-creds.yaml`, as follows:
```

Author: Addressed

+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: networking.olm.openshift.io/v1alpha1
kind: AWSLoadBalancerController <1>
metadata:
  name: cluster <2>

> spec:
>   credentials: <secret-name> <3>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
spec:
  credentials:
    name: <secret-name> <3>
```

Author: Addressed

----

> <1> Defines the `aws-load-balancer-controller` resource.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<1> Defines the `AWSLoadBalancerController` resource.
```

Author: Addressed

// Module included in the following assemblies:
// * networking/installing-albo-sts-cluster.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="nw-installing-albo-on-sts-cluster-predefined-credentials_{context}"]

> = Configuring the AWS Load Balancer Operator on Secure Token Service cluster by using predefined credentials

Reviewer: ```suggestion
= Configuring the AWS Load Balancer Operator on Secure Token Service cluster by using explicitly set credentials
```

> You can use the predefined `CredentialsRequest` object by specifying the `spec.credential` field in the AWS load Balancer Controller custom resource (CR).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The credentials secret can be specified explicitly using  the `spec.credentials` field in the AWS Load Balancer Controller custom resource (CR). You can use the predefined controller's `CredentialsRequest` object to fin dout which roles are required by the controller.
```

Author: Addressed

.Prerequisites

* You must extract and prepare the `ccoctl` binary.

.Procedure

> . Download the CredentialsRequest custom resource (CR) of the AWS Load Balancer Operator, and create a directory to store it by running the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Download the CredentialsRequest custom resource (CR) of the AWS Load Balancer Controller, and create a directory to store it by running the following command:
```

Author: Addressed

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ curl --create-dirs -o <path-to-credrequests-dir>/cr.yaml https://raw.githubusercontent.com/openshift/aws-load-balancer-operator/main/hack/controller/controller-credentials-request.yaml
----

. Use the `ccoctl` tool to process the `CredentialsRequest` object of the controller:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ ccoctl aws create-iam-roles \
        --name <name> --region=<aws_region> \
        --credentials-requests-dir=<path-to-credrequests-dir> \
        --identity-provider-arn <oidc-arn>
----

. Apply the secrets to your cluster:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ ls manifests/*-credentials.yaml | xargs -I{} oc apply -f {}
----

> . Verify that the credentials secret of the controller is created:

Reviewer 2: Suggestion: Instead of "Verify that the credentials secret of the controller is created:", replace with "Verify the credentials secret has been created for use by the controller:"

Author: Addressed
